README.md, before:

# Backend Development and APIs

## Relational Database (SQL) and Shell Scripting (command line/CLI/BASH)

[Celestial Bodies Database](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_01_celestial_bodies_database) - Sample database that exibits my SQL database knowedge for possible use cases of helping others conduct research, create visualizations, or simply learn more about the universe.

[World Cup Database](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_02_world_cup_database)- Database and shell scripts that demostrate skills in SQL and Shell Scripting.

[Salon Appointment Scheduler](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_03_salon_appointment_scheduler) - A shell script that is a simple appointment scheduler for a salon. The shell script uses the psql command to interact with the database.

[Periodic Table](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_04_periodic_table_database) - Bash script that prints out information about an element, given its atomic number, symbol, or name.

[Number Guessing Game](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_05_number_guessing_game/number_guessing_game) - Bash script that implements a number guessing game with database integration.

## Node.js/Express/MongoDB/Mongoose
[Timestamp Microservice](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/06%20Back%20End%20Development%20and%20APIs/01%20Project%20Timestamp%20Microservice) - This API is written in JavaScript and uses the Express framework to serve a unix formated timestamp upon client request. The API endpoint is well-documented and easy to use.

[Request Header Parser Microservice](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/06%20Back%20End%20Development%20and%20APIs/02%20Project%20Headparser) -  
This API parses the request header and returns the ip address, preferred language, and software used.

# Algorithms and Data Structures
## Python Programming Language
[Markov Chains](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Algorithms-and-Data-Structures/tree/main/Markov%20Chains) -
Efficient Python function to calculate the probability of reaching all states in a Markov chain, with potential for use in gaming, finance, and other applications. I found out about this when I was given the google foobar challenge. 
# Skills
<div align="left" justify="center">

 <img  src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/html5/html5-plain-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="html plain wordmark logo"   />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/css3/css3-plain-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="css3 plain wordmark logo"  />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/sass/sass-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="sass orignal logo"  />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bootstrap/bootstrap-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="bootstrap original wordmark logo"  />
 
 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/jquery/jquery-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="jquery original wordmark logo"  />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="javascript original logo"  />
  
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="typescript original logo"  />

  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/react/react-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="react original wordmark logo"  />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/redux/redux-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="redux original logo"  />


  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="nodejs original logo"  />

  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/vscode/vscode-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="vscode orignal wordmark logo"  />



  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/markdown/markdown-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="markdown original logo"  />

  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/git/git-plain-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="git plain wordmark logo"  />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bash/bash-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="bash logo"  />

  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/python/python-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="python original wordmark logo"  />

</div>
 

# Contact
<div align="left">
  <a href='https://www.linkedin.com/in/tracy-chacon-862a5699/'><img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/linkedin/linkedin-original-wordmark.svg" height="120" width="156" alt="linkedin original wordmark logo"  /></a>
  
</div>

Commit message:

Update:  README.md added link to URL shortener  microservice

README.md, after:

# Backend Development and APIs

## Relational Database (SQL) and Shell Scripting (command line/CLI/BASH)

[Celestial Bodies Database](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_01_celestial_bodies_database) - Sample database that exibits my SQL database knowedge for possible use cases of helping others conduct research, create visualizations, or simply learn more about the universe.

[World Cup Database](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_02_world_cup_database)- Database and shell scripts that demostrate skills in SQL and Shell Scripting.

[Salon Appointment Scheduler](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_03_salon_appointment_scheduler) - A shell script that is a simple appointment scheduler for a salon. The shell script uses the psql command to interact with the database.

[Periodic Table](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_04_periodic_table_database) - Bash script that prints out information about an element, given its atomic number, symbol, or name.

[Number Guessing Game](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/05%20Relational%20Database/project_05_number_guessing_game/number_guessing_game) - Bash script that implements a number guessing game with database integration.





## Node.js/Express/MongoDB/Mongoose
[Timestamp Microservice](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/06%20Back%20End%20Development%20and%20APIs/01%20Project%20Timestamp%20Microservice) - This API is written in JavaScript and uses the Express framework to serve a unix formated timestamp upon client request. The API endpoint is well-documented and easy to use.

[Request Header Parser Microservice](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/06%20Back%20End%20Development%20and%20APIs/02%20Project%20Headparser) -  
This API parses the request header and returns the ip address, preferred language, and software used.


[URL Shortener Microservice](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Projects-freeCodeCamp.org/tree/master/06%20Back%20End%20Development%20and%20APIs/03%20Project%20URL%20Shortener%20Microservice) - Headparser code parses the request header and returns the ip address, preferred language, and software used.




# Algorithms and Data Structures
## Python Programming Language
[Markov Chains](https://github.com/TracyChacon/Algorithms-and-Data-Structures/tree/main/Markov%20Chains) -
Efficient Python function to calculate the probability of reaching all states in a Markov chain, with potential for use in gaming, finance, and other applications. I found out about this when I was given the google foobar challenge. 
# Skills
<div align="left" justify="center">

 <img  src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/html5/html5-plain-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="html plain wordmark logo"   />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/css3/css3-plain-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="css3 plain wordmark logo"  />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/sass/sass-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="sass orignal logo"  />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bootstrap/bootstrap-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="bootstrap original wordmark logo"  />
 
 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/jquery/jquery-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="jquery original wordmark logo"  />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="javascript original logo"  />
  
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/typescript/typescript-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="typescript original logo"  />

  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/react/react-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="react original wordmark logo"  />
  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/redux/redux-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="redux original logo"  />


  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="nodejs original logo"  />

  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/vscode/vscode-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="vscode orignal wordmark logo"  />



  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/markdown/markdown-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="markdown original logo"  />

  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/git/git-plain-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="git plain wordmark logo"  />

 <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/bash/bash-original.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="bash logo"  />

  <img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/python/python-original-wordmark.svg" height="40" width="52" alt="python original wordmark logo"  />

</div>
 

# Contact
<div align="left">
  <a href='https://www.linkedin.com/in/tracy-chacon-862a5699/'><img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/devicons/devicon/icons/linkedin/linkedin-original-wordmark.svg" height="120" width="156" alt="linkedin original wordmark logo"  /></a>
  
</div>
